# Robotics Research and Development

The Robotics Research and Development project is one established to figure a path to get more involved in some of the more cutting edge robotics work happening both commercially and through NASA.
The project is kicking off in the summer of 2025, being headed by John MacLean.
Interns David MacLean and Jackie Shen will contribute the initial project, which is TBD.

## Timeline

### Summer 2025 &ndash; Project Initialization

#### Week 1 (June 16 - 20)

> Jackie arrives

* Project work-shopping
* Figuring out what to do for the summer
* Creating presentation

#### Week 2 (June 23 - 27)

> David arrives

* Presentation delivery
* Summer project decided
* Design beginning

#### Week 3 (June 30 - July 4)

* Design cont'd
* Initial (long lead time) part order

#### Week 3 - 4 (July 7 - 18)

* Preliminary Design Review (PDR) (Tues. 8th)
* Actuators Arriving (~Tues. 8th)
* 3D Printed Prototype Assembly Completed

> Andrew Leaves for Vacation (July 15th - 18th)

* Mechanical Design Finalized
* Critical Design Review (CDR) (Fri. 18th)
* Order Hardware

#### Week 5 - 6 (July 21 - Aug 1)

> Andrew Leaves (July 23rd - Aug 1st)

* Software Development
* Deploying Software on Prototype Robot

#### Week 7  (Aug 4 - Aug 8)

* Final Assembly
* Software Deployment on Robot
* Final Demo Creation

#### Week 8  (Aug 11 - Aug 15)

* Final Demo Finalization
* Finalize Presentation
* Final Presentation

> David Leaves

#### Week 9  (Aug 18 - Aug 22)

* Extra Time

## Installation

### Clone the repo using

```sh
git clone git@metecs-gitlab.metecs.internal:andrew.albright/robotics-research-and-development.git && cd robotics-research-and-development
```

### Manually Add the [`myactuator_rmd`]([link_here](https://github.com/2b-t/myactuator_rmd))

```sh
cd utils/
git clone https://github.com/2b-t/myactuator_rmd
```

### Generate the Python Virtual Environment

```sh
cd .. # You should be back in the robotics-research-and-development repo
uv sync
```

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> The software listed above is software that is generated by a Chinese company and therefore CANNOT be installed on a computer with access to the main network.
> It can ONLY BE INSTALLED TO A machine on the GUEST network.

## Usage

### Set Up the CAN

#### Check the status of the CAN

```sh
ip link show can0
```

#### Setup the CAN Bitrate

```sh
sudo ip link set can0 type can bitrate 1000000
```

#### Set the CAN to `up`

```sh
sudo ip link set up can0
```

### Running the Scripts

```sh

```

## Reporting

See [reporting](./reporting/README.md).

## share drive link

<https://metecsllc-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/jackie_shen_metecs_com/Eke-xZKex-ZMoPZQPBv4ik8BvS7vKZhcFd08mirjN-IuBA?e=jRKeRU>
